Pegasus. Pegasus. In collaboration with Forbidden Films, a two-part investigation. This story would be huge. NSO was established with the ambition to make the world a safer place into powerful spyware. It's a military weapon used against civilians. used around the world. There is no control over how countries use it. And they have been using it in the worst way you could imagine. Now on Frontline, part two of Global Spyware Scandal, exposing Pegasus. When you have your hands on a technology like this, the power must be quite intoxicating. You can get into the phone of most people in the world. And no one's looking over your shoulder. On va se faire un brief. La base de données est vraiment explosive. Pegasus. Pegasus. Pegasus. It's like a person over your shoulder, a person who will see what you are seeing, a person who will watch what you are watching. Your emails, your encrypted communication, everything. So once you are infected, you're trapped. It was against so many people in civil society who clearly were not terrorists or criminals. And you got a real sense that it was a free-for-all. De acuerdo con la pesquisa recabada por The Washington Post, The Guardian, Le Monde y otros medios, A joint investigation by 17 news outlets and Forbidden Stories. Activists, lawyers and journalists are reportedly among those who've been targeted by the phone. phone numbers belonging to some big name politicians. NSO says they sell the software to governments for legitimate purposes, fighting terrorism or violating local laws. You have here a go-to spy service for tyrants. Oui, oui. Après je comprends tout à fait si vous souhaitez pas le, pas le faire aussi bien entendu votre droit le plus strict et Au revoir. Je pense qu'il va dire non lui. Il se trouve que parmi les personnes qui figurent dans la liste, il y a un ancien ministre qui n'est plus au gouvernement et qui donc a une, une forme de liberté un peu plus grande que quelqu'un qui serait encore actuellement au pouvoir et c'est François de Rugy. Donc on a contacté François de Rugy en lui expliquant qu'on souhaitait parler de quelque chose d'extrêmement confidentiel. Vous êtes pas le seul ministre ou ex-ministre concerné, on en a au total 14. Et donc à son crédit, il a il a fini par accepter et donc on s'est revu pour procéder à à l'analyse technique de de son téléphone et qui nous a permis de confirmer qu'effectivement il avait bien été ciblé et qu'il avait bien été ciblé par le client qu'on avait identifié comme étant le royaume du Maroc. Il n'a pas eu l'air du tout surpris quand je lui ai annoncé le pays. Ah bon. Il m'a dit qu'il a rencontré le roi, ce qui est à mon avis une bonne manière de le mettre sur les radars de ces gens. Le numéro de téléphone qui est attribué à Emmanuel Macron, la première étape ça a été de vérifier que le numéro était encore actif aujourd'hui et que c'était bien toujours Emmanuel Macron qui l'utilisait. Et donc le moyen le plus simple de vérifier si il l'utilise toujours, c'est de lui écrire, donc en fait on va envoyer un SMS à Emmanuel Macron. Monsieur le Président de la République. Nous publions la nouvelle enquête internationale. sur le cyber. Hmm hmm. Donc vous-même avez été la cible ? Donc vous-même avez été la cible. C'est plus clair, soyons clair. En plus c'est pour ça. C'est ça que vous allez lui dire. Ah bah oui. Donc vous avez été la cible. Ah non. Ouais. C'est parti. Et donc Emmanuel Macron ne répond pas directement à ce SMS, mais une heure ou deux heures après avoir envoyé ce SMS, les services de l'Élysée nous rappellent à propos du SMS qui lui a été envoyé, donc il l'a bien reçu, le téléphone est toujours actif. Ouais, ouais, bah là on va à l'Élysée là. Quelques heures après avoir envoyé ce SMS à Emmanuel Macron, on a reçu une invitation à se rendre à l'Élysée. qui venait des services de l'État pour discuter de ce que nous avions trouvé. Bah, le rendez-vous quand même de ce matin, l'impression que ça nous a donné à tous, c'est vraiment le côté panique, enfin pas panique genre mon Dieu c'est horrible ce qu'il a pu se passer, mais c'est plutôt mon Dieu, toutes les implications potentielles de cette affaire sur Il faut et plans judiciaire, diplomatique, sécuritaire, euh voilà, et que, et que en fait euh ils verrouillent, ils verrouillent la la communication. Assez rapidement les experts de l'État vont confirmer qu'il y a bien eu des tentatives d'infection ou des infections dans certains cas sur les téléphones de certains ministres euh et sur les téléphones d'un certain nombre de très hauts fonctionnaires euh français. Le résultat des analyses du téléphone du président de la République est classé secret défense et on n'y aura vraiment jamais accès. We don't know exactly who in Morocco was using Pegasus. There were Moroccan dissidents on the list, even the King of Morocco himself was on the list. But we do know that NSO only sells to governments and government agencies. We were reaching out to another dimension of the project. We were at this stage entering a space, a dangerous space, where we were talking about a country, a state attacking another one. Each time you look at how a client of NSO Group used the technology, it tells you something about that government. In the UAE, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum is prime minister, vice president, and of course, the ruler of Dubai. Here is an autocratic leader, massively powerful. Princess Latifa is the daughter of Sheikh Muhammad. She had for a long time been, by her account, unhappy about her life in Dubai. She had been incarcerated effectively by her father's regime. I'm making this video because it could be the last video I make. Yeah. This video can help me because all my father cares about is his reputation. He will kill people to protect his own reputation. He he he only cares about himself and his ego. Princess Latifa concocted this extraordinary attempted escape that involved jet skis, a yacht and a trip to the Indian Ocean. I mean, it's an audacious thing to do. Incredible even that she attempted it. I think remarkable that it nearly succeeded. The day after Princess Latifa went missing from Dubai, we saw her number entered into the list. And in the days after that, as she was traveling toward India on this yacht, her friends, people she knew, people within her orbit, their phone numbers also appeared on the list. If you look at the dates and times that her number and those of people close to her were entered into the system, you have something that has to be more than a coincidence. Eight days after her escape, Indian special forces boarded the yacht, and then the princess was forcibly returned to Dubai. We don't know exactly why the attempted escape didn't succeed, but NSO's technology was, it seems, from the evidence we've seen, one of the tools that was being used by the state in a desperate attempt to find Princess Latifa, kidnap her and return her back to Dubai. We tried hard to get hold of a phone that Latifa had used but we couldn't. So we contacted her friends and her associates to ask if we could check their phones to see if they had been targeted with Pegasus. Given how much David Haig was working on the Latifa case, it wasn't a surprise when we discovered that there was Pegasus activity on his phone. I was infected on 3rd of August 2020 with Pegasus. I believe at 3:00 a.m. in the morning and the next day as well. The fact that you can be hacked on British soil, and that they can do that is frightening. It really is. My name's David Haigh from Detained International, then we founded the campaign to free the Dubai Princess, Princess Latifa in 2018. David Haigh was actually imprisoned in Dubai for alleged fraud, and it was after his release that he became a human rights campaigner. Princess Latifa began to message him after her failed attempted escape. This is a picture that Latifa drew of the jail villa, Villa 96 in Jumeirah, Dubai, near the Burj Al Arab. Um and you can see here at Beach this direction, where she was held captive. This villa has been converted into a jail. All the windows are boarded shut, I can't open any window. Uh there's five policemen outside and two policewoman inside the house. Uh I don't know what can happen to me and how long this will last and if they decide to release me, like how my life will be. But um, I'm not safe at all. That week before I'd hacked, our secret contact with Latifa had stopped suddenly. The several hours became a day and then two days. And then we started to worry because that was not normal. We had recorded a lot of videos and a lot of evidence Latifa had that could be used to tell the world about her predicament. The fact that she'd been held hostage. At the time I was hacked, we were in London with the videos that Latifa recorded, the evidence, to meet media to decide if we were going to use it at that time or not. It was effectively dynamite evidence on that phone. The fact that they know your location. That someone could be listening to us now and seeing what we're doing. And it's that sitting in the back of your head every day. We can't let NSO and the governments that abuse their system get away with what they've done. Because if we do and if nothing happens and people are not brought to justice, people are not put in jail and people are not taken to court. The next company and the next company and the next company wherever they may be, will do exactly the same. And it will just carry on, but get worse. The heart of the company is what we call vulnerability researchers. You take a system like the iPhone that the best engineers in the world worked on it, and you find a way to overcome it. But there is a well-oiled mechanism of recruiting army computer unit graduates to the civilian high-tech. To all kinds of companies. 8200 is a large unit within the army. And within that unit, they deal with offensive cyber of the Israel Defense Forces, of the IDF. When they need to extract information from our enemies, these are the people who will do it. They have knowledge that is rare. They take 18-year-old kids, train them very quickly, very deeply. Israel has this advantage of not only developing new technologies and weaponry, but testing it live. And this is something Israel knows it can use to sell outside. When you want to control a huge population like we do with Palestinians, you have to have assets everywhere. So everyone can be a target because you don't want only the, I don't know, terrorists from Hamas, but also maybe his neighbor or the his cousin or the person who sells milk in the corner of the street. If you want to recruit human agents, you need to collect their weaknesses, things that you can use to blackmail. And so part of what 8200 does is to collect this blackmail potential information about everybody. If your day or if you have medical, special medical condition or you have uh financial problems or someone from your family has one of those, then that's something we can use against you to blackmail you and get you to cooperate. Israeli intelligence has a strategic view of how their employees should be used after they leave their employ. They promote them. They want them to start these companies. And they see a deep communications, a continued relationship between the government and their former employees as valuable to Israel's national security interest. There's a lot of evidence to suggest that NSO Group had the the direct backing and support of Bibi Netanyahu's government. In order to sell its product to governments around the world, it required permits effectively, licenses from the Israeli Defense Ministry. I decided several years ago to turn Israel into one of the five uh cyber powers of the world. In order for the companies to develop, they need to make what do they need to make? Money. They need to make money. Now, the easiest way to make sure that they don't make money is one, high taxes, right? What's the other one? Regulations. Have you ever heard of regulations? We have a problem with regulations. So the policy we have is keep taxes low and keep regulations low. Minimize regulations. There is no industry more susceptible and more inviting of regulations than cybersecurity. It's like weapons. It is a weapon. The story of using a weapon as a diplomatic tool is not new in Israel. There is even a term for it. It's called diplomacy of the Uzi. And we found a match between the timelines between a visit of Netanyahu to a certain country or a visit of another country's leader to Israel, and the day when the NSO system was first operated in that country. Sometimes the system was operated before the state visit. Sometimes the state visit was before the system was operated. But the correlation was so strong that it cannot be ignored. One example is Hungary, which under the populist prime minister, Viktor Orbán, the country has become one of Israel's strongest allies in the European Union. The timeline for Hungary is that the visit was in July 2017. And the operation of Hungary, we know almost the exact date, by the database of Forbidden Stories, it's February 2018. So similarities. Through this list of phone numbers, you can find numbers from Morocco, from Bahrain, from the United Arab Emirates, and from Saudi Arabia. So we know that the State of Israel wanted to get closer to them. It wanted to warm up relations with them. Photos that Netanyahu, of course not in Saudi Arabia, which is still unofficial and still what they call relations behind the scenes, we see that the State of Israel is beginning to understand the value that NSO has, that Pegasus has for some countries that do not have strong intelligence services, that do not have good technological capabilities. And Israel uses Pegasus as a diplomatic currency. As something that it can give to countries that it wants something from. And that's how to warm up relations or to advance in negotiations. And essentially, this is my small contribution to this amazing project called Pegasus Project. Going through all the numbers on the list was a huge job. More than 15,000 of the numbers were in Mexico. And one of those numbers belonged to a journalist who was murdered just three weeks after he was put on the list. Was Pegasus used in that case to spy on the journalist or to geolocate him? Sabes que ese señor Pineda es también en la lista? Sí, el que es el que fue asesinado? Sí. Es en la lista, sí. Qué fuerte. En México es muy grave que se haya usado Pegasus como se usó. Me remito al caso de Cecilio Pineda. Y de Pegasus Project lo mostró públicamente que su teléfono fue ingresado días antes o semanas antes de haber sido cometido el asesinato. El estado de Guerrero es una de las entidades más impactadas por el crimen organizado. Hay lugares en donde literalmente el Estado ya no tiene dominio. Las autoridades en realidad están pues mezcladas con el crimen organizado. Y hay pues actividad del del narcotráfico, hay actividad diversa delincuencial. De acuerdo con el reporte de la policía, varios sujetos armados llegaron a un autolavado donde el periodista Cecilio Pineda esperaba que le entregaran su camioneta y le dispararon. No me sorprende que Cecilio Pineda estuviera en esa lista porque el tema que se estaba tocando era serio. y estamos cansados de violencia. Pero nadie eh tiene segura su vida. También es verdad vivimos en un entorno en donde estamos solos, en una región en donde todas autoridades pues no te no te apoyan, eh aquí uno tiene que defenderse con sus propias uñas. Buenas tardes, amigos de Tierra Caliente, pues aquí ya de regreso después de estar en dos municipios de la región y pues nos encontramos con esto. A Cecilio te había hecho un video. Venía en camino y quiso dar un mensaje anticipado de lo que iba a presentar después. Él dijo que unas horas después iba a mostrar el video de la relación que había entre el gobierno del Estado y el grupo del Tequilero. Después de eso ya no presentó nada. Ahí lo asesinaron. Ese día este fue Y ya al llegar a la clínica este yo quise pasar a verlo. Entonces me dice la señorita, dice, no, se lo están atendiendo. Entonces, yo pensé pues que iba a estar bien. Dije, no, pues nada más fue pues algo. Ya como a los a los tres minutos salió el doctor. Dice, no, dice, pues ya, ya falleció. Y es la única vez en mi vida que que me he desmayado. Cuando volví pues estaba toda aturdida, dije, pues no sabía qué. Y pues ya, fue cuando me volvieron a decir pues que había fallecido. Que este, que ya había llegado prácticamente casi muerto pues. You can only prove infection if you do forensics on the phone and find traces of Pegasus. But in many cases the phone was not findable. That was the case of Cecil Pineda. No se puede afirmar categóricamente que lo que se obtuvo de el posible espionaje haya sido lo que provocó el asesinato. Pero tampoco podemos ser ingenuos. In some ways, we can talk about the impact on the company and say it's been really profound. A more pessimistic view would be to look at the entire industry. Which remains unreformed, pretty wild, unregulated. NSO may vanish. But I feel no more secure talking in front of my phone now than I did when we first published. You know, I don't think these issues have gone away.