We're down! Do you remember back then when we met, you told me this is forever I... Will you say it?
I'd say ticket. That's the hot lunch, right there.
Hot lunch, bro.
Hot lunch. How you doing, Allen?
Good, bro. How are you?
I'm pretty good.
Hey, how you doing?
Good, bro.
I'm excited to uh be starting guitar today.
My Chemical Romance is a band that needs very little introduction. They exist as both a group beloved for their music and the innovations they brought throughout their career, yet are also seen as the catalyst for one of the most obnoxious and awful fandoms to ever walk the earth.
When I was a young boy, my father took me into the city to see a marching band.
Though, to be fair to Gerard and crew, they've almost always brought some form of controversy, whether it be for being the poster children of the emo generation, posers in the eyes of metal and rock elitists everywhere, or just the fact that if you listened to the radio or surfed the web in the rock space between the years of 2004 to 2010, there was absolutely no escaping them.
But despite the polarizing nature of MCR, it doesn't change the fact that they are a band that deserves the many accolades that they have been given, and a band whose story is far different from just about any other band that I've covered. Formed out of the ashes of tragedy only to quickly climb to the top of a rising scene and become the forerunners of alternative music in the early 2000s. And to finish it all off by becoming a band so big and influential, they're seen as one of the last true rock and roll artists.
So, the real question here is, just how did this all start and how did this guy eventually become the man who would stand as a voice of a generation commanding seas of people at just about every country he went to? Well, it's a bit of a long story. So why don't we just cut to brass tacks and talk about the tragic early days of My Chemical Romance. Uh, we're from New Jersey.
Hey, I'm Mikey, I play the bass guitar.
I'm Gerard, I sing.
I'm Frank, I scream and play guitar.
You guys can stand up.
Oh, alright.
Oh yeah, nice. I'm Ray. I play guitar.
I'm Matt, I play drums.
Alright, so you guys are from where'd you say?
New Jersey.
Alright, what are you guys all about? What's what's up with My Chemical Romance?
Partying.
We're all about the party.
We bring the party, actually. It's we have a a party in the back of the trailer. If you open it up, like, girls come out and there's like bears on unicycles and stuff.
I don't know.
So you guys have something special that you're bringing to Hellfest? Some sort of message that you want kids to know about, anything like that?
Oh, man. We're here to save kids' lives.
Yeah.
What are you doing to save kids' lives?
Bringing a message.
The message being, "Save kids' lives?"
It's a rock and roll exorcism, dude.
A rock and roll exorcism?
Yeah.
Nice.
When covering most bands on this channel, I've come to realize that a lot of times these artists' histories play out a lot like Groundhog Day. High school kids meet and start a band. An iconic lineup is formed. They put out their first album to high acclaim or sleeper success. The second album is another hit, or it's sophomore slump. An important member leaves. The third album is mid, and the band breaks up or, miraculously, makes a huge comeback. Rinse and repeat. Though in the case of MCR, they would actually only come to be because some bearded book club members decided that two towers were too much and wanted to even the playing field a little bit.

Yeah, 9/11 was actually the catalyst for the band forming, but before we get there, we should probably lay out some context. My Chemical Romance is an ensemble band where most groups are just that, groups, where one or two personalities are responsible for just about all the writing, imagery, and star power. MCR is one of the few groups defined by its four major members, playing up distinct and key aspects that made them what they were. And before you jump down my throat for saying four-piece, I say that because for the greater part of their career, the drummers were honestly the least important, and they would go through drummers like water, with Bob Bryar being the only one to have a decently long stint. were honestly the least important. And they would go through drummers like water, with Bob Bryer being the only one to have a decently long stint within the group. Our four key players here would be none other than Gerard Way, Mikey Way, Frank Iero, and Ray Toro. Four misfits born and raised in New Jersey who could thank their upbringing for forging them into the artists that they would later become. Now, an oversight that many people make when dissecting music is overlooking the impact one's environment can have in terms of vision, inspiration, and outlook. Hence why so many great bands from the emo era came from Ohio. a place that's relatively miserable and boring most of the time, and outside of opioids, the only way to entertain yourself is to find hobbies and dump all your time into them. So, for most from Ohio, it would be music and playing instruments, making it no surprise that a lot of great artists would hail from what is considered a flyover state. The melancholic and miserable nature of living in Ohio itself infects the music artists there make. Hence why a lot of Golden Age post-hardcore and Midwest emo have such sad and desperate tones to them. Now, this same idea can be applied to MCR as Jersey, while not being as sad or melancholic of a state, is one defined by its cutthroat nature, and especially during the time that these guys were growing up in the '80s and '90s, a place defined by its gang and mob violence. I'm always just really apprehensive about me and Gerard going out and playing. There's a lot of, you know, shootings, drug-related crimes, murders, things like that, mafia-related crimes. Uh, this is Park Holden, uh, West Hudson Park that's like right around the corner from my house where they found I think at least like four or five dead bodies in the in the pond like over the last couple of years. So the members ending up being nerds obsessed with comics, music, and fantasy is no real surprise since going out to play and socializing wasn't exactly an option. Ray Toro specifically was the member who would get heavily entrenched into music when he was still very young, picking up guitar at an early age and by high school was knee deep into writing and performing, playing in bands such as Nancy Drew where he would play with a young Gerard Way, and most successfully, The Rodneys who would even put out a record in 1997. While it bears just about no resemblance to the sound that My Chem would rise to fame with, it's important to note that even at this early junction, Ray's iconic tone can still be heard. And at that, some of his more ballroom influence that would with. It's important to note that even at this early junction, Ray's iconic tone can still be heard. And at that, some of his more ballroom influence that would play a big part in Black Parade shows its face here as well. I'll be it in a very juvenile and early form. But alas, the disillusionment of adulthood would hit Ray pretty hard and an early age. And despite the early and local success that he would see with the Rodney's, he would still opt to just put music to the side not long after graduating from high school and would ultimately enroll in college to pursue filmmaking. stating that making it in a touring band was something he really didn't have any interest in and much preferred the process of writing and editing a lot more. He would only occasionally perform as a drummer at that point for a band called Dead Go West. Now, as for fellow future member Frank Iro, his upbringing would be the most drastic from his peers. He shared in their more isolated nature, but rather than it being due to protective parents trying to keep him safe, it was actually mostly due to his numerous bouts of bronchitis. being in and out of hospitals for the majority of his childhood. Now, despite this, he would still develop a massive passion for music due to both his father and grandpa being musicians and seeing them perform regularly, inspiring him to want to be a musician as well. The introduction for music for me was really early on. My dad was a drummer. He played in a blues band. If I was lucky, I'd get to go see him. When it came time for me to kind of find out about my own stuff, I think I gravitated towards the DIY punk rock and hardcore on that was happening in in Jersey and New York at the time. blues and stuff like that that my dad really loved was like this DIY done in basements kind of thing, you know, like makeshift recordings. And I found that in Punk and Hardcore. Kids just, you know, scraping together whatever they could, recording on, you know, four tracks and stuff like that, putting out seven inches or or tapes and putting on shows for, you know, for their bands. Like that was huge to me. Frank would spend his formative years in New Jersey's DIY punk scene, playing in a few bands and ultimately living it up. The man was the embodiment of the eternal indie, whose only dream was to play small shows to niche audiences and just make enough money to eat McDonald's every day. Like, I didn't want to be a virtuoso or like a, you know, like uh, spandex wearing frontman on stage. Like I I wanted to just write songs and play VFW Halls. Like that was my thing. Though the most important bit of Frank's upbringing was his time in the band Pency Prep. a group that write songs and play VFW halls. Like that was my thing. Though the most important bit of Frank's upbringing was his time in the band Pency Prep. a group that formed during his college years. Unlike Ray's band, the Rodneys, which had a more eclectic yet traditional take to the punk sound, extremely far removed from what we would hear from MCR, Pency prep on the other hand, actually fits the bill as a proto MCR type band very well. Now, don't get me wrong, the two are very distinct from one another, but Pency had a much more early emo and indie sound to it, mixed with the obvious punk influence. Frank's guteral and punchy voice does a lot to bring the distinction in sound. But as you can hear from some of the guitar work and song writing, the hook-oriented emo rock sound is all there. Be it much more simplified than what would come with MCR, but still very fitting. And Pency is such an important part of the MCR story because it was here where Frank would obtain a lot of the contacts that would later get the band off the ground, as well as he would develop his unique style of songwriting and performing. The band was extremely short-lived, only lasting a little over two years and dispanding only a year after their debut had hit the shelves. But the relationships Frank made with the members of Thursday and Ivoball Records during this time would be some of the most important keys in our story later on. Pency Prep's disbandment became one of the most defining moments for MCR because without Frank being available, it's doubtful the band would have struck the lightning that they did. But again, before we get into the formation, we have two more people we need to cover. I'm Gerard. I'm And we're from My Chemical Romance and I sing and I play the beats. The Way brothers were an odd duo and it's pretty easy to see that. Now, growing up, these two were the typical close brotherly pair sharing their interest and spending a lot of time together, getting into music at an early age and sharing a love for both punk music like the Misfits and Grunge like Smashing Pumpkins. But the big divide between these two would be their initial paths in life. Mikey Way would opt to be much more low key with his pursuits and after high school would find himself pursuing music after being inspired by Iron Maiden of all bands. Whereas outside of playing Peter Pan in a school play and struggling to perform guitar for a handful of bands like Nancy Drew, Gerard would take a much different path in life by Outside of playing Peter Pan in a school play and struggling to perform guitar for a handful of bands like Nancy Drew, Gerard would take a much different path in life by actually pursuing a career in the comic book industry. Starting in high school, Gerard began planting the seeds of a career that wouldn't come to bloom until decades later. But with his obsession with music, books, and cartoons, he would spend much of his teen years drawing and writing, and even studying in college and graduating with a fine arts degree. But as the theme here goes, this era of Gerard's life would ultimately be short-lived. Because after a few years of going nowhere and his Aquatina Hunger Force ripoff show being rejected by the network, one specific event would happen that would drastically change the world forever. I mean, it was like being in a in a science fiction film, you know, or like a or some kind of like disaster film. It was exactly that kind of feeling. You didn't believe it. Like it felt like you were an independent day or something. Like it made no sense. Your brain couldn't process it. And for me it was a little different. I'm kind of like, I'm very empathetic and I'm kind of a conduit, um emotionally and stuff. So I pick up um, a lot of stuff in that way. And there was like about three, 400 people around me, I was right at the edge. A lot of people were maybe a little too scared to get right to the edge of the railing. All these people behind me though, they all had friends and family in those buildings. I didn't. So when that first building went, like it was like a it was like an A-bomb went off of like just this emotion and it was like it made you nauseous. You know, I was more upset for the people around me than for myself, you know. Um I was just I think the one of the first thoughts that went in my head when they went down is what does this mean? Like what does this mean for the world? The events of 911 and its lasting impact on Gerard himself would change his life forever. Seeing firsthand the tragic event would forever warp and shift Gerard's perspectives of life and overall outlook. And after a long time of reflecting on everything, he would decide to leave the comic book and cartoon industry and pursue music. With distress and trauma, even being the direct inspiration to the first set of lyrics Gerard would ever write for the band. That being, Skylines and Turnstyles. And in this moment, we can't close the lids on burning eyes. Our memories blink at us with friends we know like fallout vapors. Steel corpses stretch out towards an ending sun, scorched and black. It reaches in and tears your flesh apart as ice cold hands rip into your heart. The wheel of fate is turning. Rebel one. Action.
It's it's crazy and amazing and beautiful and all these, you know, it's what every band wants, you know what I mean? Like more than anything. You know, cuz certain bands are motivated by money, others by popularity. We're motivate motivated by neither. But but that's one thing that everybody wants is like to be able to one year in one year's time, last year we played a basement in New Brunswick and uh, you know, this year it's this. After sitting in a pit of despair following the tragic events of September 11th, Gerard would eventually come out of it with the determination and drive to start a band.
So what brought all you guys together? Together at first?
Um, basically the telephone, um picking it up, calling people you haven't seen in years going, you know, are you kind of happy with what you're doing in your life and then having them say no and me saying I, I'm not happy either. Let's try maybe doing a band again and see what happens. And it was kind of a last ditch effort for everybody.
Realistically, I had called up Matt right after September 11th. I guess it was more like October.
He would end up recruiting drummer Matt Pelissier, who's a bit of an unsung hero to the band. And while his time may be some of the shortest compared to other members, he was the first member to join Gerard and the drumming style that he brought to the table would be a very defining element of what would later end up being the band's debut. Shortly after this, Way would set his sights on Ray Toro.
And when I found out he was playing drums in a band, it just bummed me out. Cuz I thought like he's the greatest guitar player I know. Like hands down. And I've met a lot at that point. I've been around, I've been in music school and seen a lot of bands and to me in like in Jersey, there's nobody that could beat him. I thought he was the best.
And considering the talent there, I can't blame him. Though, it wasn't as smooth as just asking him to join. It did take a little bit of convincing in the beginning and as Ray had already given up on music for the most part at this point, uh relegating himself to poorly playing drums or pursuing a career in film.
And uh, you know, he had just given me a call and was like, hey, I got, you know, I'm working on some new stuff and I want you to check it out. I brought my guitar over. Yeah, it was it was awesome because I didn't I hadn't been playing guitar for I don't know, like a year and a half. I was playing drums in a crappy, not I mean, you know, just like a fun like punk rock band. I never played drums before and I always wanted to play drums, so I sucked at it.
It would take re-sparking that joy within him. But after a single jam session, things would be set in stone. It would take re-sparking that joy within him. But after a single jam session, things would be set in stone, and Ray would join the band. The last of the original four-piece to join would actually be Mikey Way. He's actually the one who coined the iconic name for the band. And Mikey had saw this little blurb, it was either on the inside or the back cover. It said like five tales of chemical romance. He was like, wouldn't it be kind of cool if you put a my in front of that, made it My Chemical Romance? We kind of threw the my on to kind of give it a little, a little twist. And uh, it it was awesome because uh, it just was there was no band. It was just the band name. Ever ever since he came up with that band name, it just felt like um, you needed to kind of start a band just so you could use that name. And after hearing their original demo tape, the attic demos, as they're known, he would sign on to play bass, bringing the first real lineup of the band to life. Now, to speak on this demo, this would actually be the little cassette that not only got the attention of Eyeball Records, but also that of Frank Iero. So, maybe before we go any further, we should probably take a listen to just what this little demo had to offer.

This early version of Skylines and Turnstiles, originally just titled Turnstiles, lives up to Frank's words. It's out of tune, not all that tight, and Gerard's voice in particular is very rough, to say the least. But it does hold quite a bit of charm. For a first-time demo by a bunch of nobodies from Jersey, there really is something special here. And I don't think anything shows this off more than the second track, Bring More Knives, later retitled to Our Lady of Sorrows.

This song is even more rough than the last one, but it's the first time we really get to hear the dissidence and pop hook mixture that would come to define the band's first couple of records. Even though it sounds poorly recorded and dodgily performed, it has this unrelenting charm to it that just can't be ignored. Going back to the retrospective I did for Attack Attack, it's very reminiscent of their old demo. It's rough but holds so much potential and raw talent that all its flaws seem to almost melt away. Like you can see what's past it and peer into the future of what it will become. And literally in this case, since just about all these tracks would be reworked for Bullets. What's important here is that these demos would serve as a very solid foundation. And with the success of the band's early shows, the marketability of bullets. What's important here is that these demos would serve as a very solid foundation. And with the success of the band's early shows, the marketability of their name, it was all but inevitable that they would be a group bidded on by many different labels and talent scouts. During the first year of the band's career, they would most consistently be pursued by Eyeball Records, eventually signing with them to produce their debut record. And during this same time, fellow Eyeball alumni, Pense Prep would develop a bit of a friendship with Mychem as Frank would recollect they were big fans of the demo. another band and they started and I became a huge fan of them. What I'm finding is Frank and Pense Prep really kind of discovered this in a way. I met Frank because his band gave us our first practice space. His old band Pense Prep. Is that how you knew him because you guys were in the same studio? Well, I knew them actually just going to parties at uh the Eyeball Records house. Like I mentioned before, the dissolving of Pense Prep would be a key moment for MCR as it opened up the door for Frank to join the band. and given his love for their music and constant assertions that MCR was his favorite band, it was simply a waiting game before they would convince him to join. He would begin his post Pense Prep career by trying to get a few new projects off the ground. The most important of which would be I am Graveyard. As you can hear, they're a much more heavy and horror influenced group, making them a key jump off point for Frank to get his pallet wet for what MCR had up their sleeves. Though, if this live footage is anything to go off of, I'm not even going to lie. I kind of wish we got to hear more of this project. It's DNA would go on to be heard in some of Frank's later projects like Leather Mouth or even stomach aches. But the messy web of side gigs and solo work Frank has put out over the years will be a video all its own because that is that is a tangled web of of its own. Now, the long and short of it here is that Frank had already been a long time fan and held to aid the band in its infancy to get on some shows and get them connected with eyeball. So, when he was finally offered a spot with the band, he would opt to join them just in time to contribute to the last few songs of their first record. People are going to be watching this interview in between a bunch of sex scenes, you know, people are going to be banging and then this interview is going to come up. Now, so there might be a guy on the other side of the screen that, you know, just finished jerking off and now your interview's coming on. Do you have anything to say to these people? Um, your mom's coming. You should be ashamed of yourself. What I think you guys should do is intercut it. So anything to say to these people?
Um, your mom's coming.
You should be ashamed of yourself.
What I think you guys should do is intercut it. So like, right before, right before the money shot there's just like, so we like Dungeons and Dragons.
In early 2002, MCR would enter the studio to create the album that would begin their journey to becoming the titans they are remembered as today. The brilliantly titled I Brought You My Bullets, You Brought Me Your Love. An album that still stands as their most raw and outwardly heavy work to date. As strange of a comparison as this might be, it actually reminds me of Korn's debut of all things. It's very evident from the performances alone that this is a band hungry not only to make it, but wanting to produce an album with a fresh and unique sound that had yet to really be touched at that time. A huge factor in this actually came from the producer of this thing. And while Korn had the secret weapon of Ross Robinson to help build them up, in this case, we have the unsung legend, Jeff Rickly, vocalist of the band Thursday. Thursday is another legendary Jersey band who sadly gets overshadowed in the post-hardcore conversation, but is definitely a band that really deserves recognition for the innovations they brought and the fantastic music that they made. And his influence here is pretty easy to see, with both Gerard's vocal takes as well as the overall hardcore influence that could be heard on some of the heavier tracks on the record. Another massive aspect of this whole thing is that the vocal tapes are drenched in voice cracks and pained yells. And this wasn't just a stylistic choice. Gerard was in the middle of dental surgery. So the pain you hear is a lot more real than you would probably believe.
Unfortunately I had this problem with a tooth. I went, I went to like six or seven hospitals during the making of that record because I had a tooth that had an abscess in it, nobody could figure it out. He was in tremendous pain for, for, you know, when doing vocals for the last couple tracks. It was the worst pain I'd felt in my life so it was really difficult to finish the vocals on that record and we didn't have a lot of time, we didn't have a lot of money.
I wouldn't call its production lo-fi by any means, but the crystal clear audio quality and high polish of the band's later work are almost completely absent here. People tend to forget that MCR is a crusty Jersey band, and on Bullets, they actually sound like one. And on July 23rd, 2002, for the first time, the greater world of music would finally be introduced to this very sound.
The amount of pills I’ve taken, counteracts on booze on Prozac, and this is barely your breakfast, let me live my life... to this very sound.
Honey, this mirror isn't big enough for the two of us is probably the best introduction the album could have let in with. After the low-fi recording of romance, instantly being slapped in the face with that nasty guitar riff, the dissonant rhythms and the driving drums, it just hits super fucking hard and sets the tone for the album that we're about to listen to, making it pretty evident from the onslaught that this is not going to be your typical emo or post hardcore affair. And unlike many other bands of the scene at the time, they didn't lead in with a single about melancholy and love or teen romance. Rather Gerard screaming about his addictions. The amount of pills I'm taking kind of racks the booze I'm drinking and this vanity that I'm breaking lets me live my life like this. And well, I find it hard to stay with the words you say, Oh baby, let me in. The song's main theme here is obviously choosing vices over a lover. It's this very raw, intense sort of subject matter that wasn't all that common in this scene at the time, especially with those that were considered more emo bands. And this darkness is expanded even further with the next track. Vampires will never hurt you.
Vampires was one of the biggest songs the band had ever put out during these early days. and given how fantastic and really well written the stop and go nature of the song is between the heavy and soft parts and all the dynamics, it really shows off an element that most other bands lacked at this time. And the creatively written lyrics about struggling with becoming a vampire and begging for death acts as a really great allegory for conformity. And now the nightclub sets the stage for this. They come in pairs. She said, we'll shoot back holy water like cheap whiskey. They're always there. Someone get me to the doctor and someone call the nurse. And someone buy me roses and someone burned the church. We're hanging out with corpses and driving in this hearse and someone saved my soul tonight, please save my soul. The lyrics in general come across as someone who's falling into a new lifestyle or social click, and in realizing they aren't the same person they thought they were, they no longer fit in with conventional society, desperately begging to escape back to the comforts of conformity. Now, before we go any further, we should They no longer fit in with conventional society, desperately begging to escape back to the comfort of conformity. Now, before we go any further, we should probably address an elephant in the room. Something mentioned at the beginning of the video. Oh man, we're here to save kids' lives. Yeah. What are you doing to save kids' lives? Bringing a message. The message being save kids' lives. Even at this early juncture, the band really pushed and focused on this whole, we're here to save your life stick. By singing songs about vampires, Bonnie and Clyde, and Dawn of the Dead. Complete with recreations of scenes from audition being clipped into their music videos. I know this is a half-hearted grift that they still keep up to this day, and I say half-hearted because it's obvious that at least to an extent, they do really buy into this whole, we're saving lives bit. But given the actual lyrical content of what they talk about, it's either far more personal lyrics about Gerard's life and experiences, or it's far more theatrical and story-driven stuff, like what could be heard with their later records like Black Parade or even Danger Days. And given this same template would be picked up by the likes of the Log Man of Black Vale Brides and even scum like Baldi Vanity of Blood on the Dance Floor, I think it's a grift that's been exposed for just how hollow it really is. A good chunk of these songs are about a Bonnie and Clyde type duo, with a handful of songs that don't really fit into this and are a bit of their own thing. So, it's kind of like a loose concept record where a good chunk of the songs fit into a certain theme and a few others are just kind of there to be self-explanatory. The album is split in half with songs like the previously mentioned vampires, as well as other tracks like Headfirst for Halos. whose lyrics speak on depression and self-sunset. Well, now I'm back in the middle of the day that starts it all. I can't begin to let you know just what I'm feeling. And now the red ones make me fly and blue ones help me fall. And I think I'll blow my brains against the ceiling now. We'll fly home, you and I will fly home. If I were to throw a bone at Gerard and crew, this would be one of those songs meant to save kids' lives, as it speaks very relatably on something as serious as self-hatred and wanting to end your own life. And much like the lyrics of Skylines and Turnstyles, which are about Gerard's feelings after bearing witness to the World Trade Center's demise. On the other hand, we have songs like Drowning lessons and Our Lady of Sorrows. Our Lady of Sorrows focuses heavily on building the characters of the demolition lovers with its lyrics painting a picture of a man doing his best to convey his thoughts that he and his lover are perfect for one another, especially if they were to go out in a violent death. We could be perfect one last night and die like star cross lovers when we fight. And we can settle this affair if you would shed your yellow. Take my hand and then we'll shove the mystery of laceration gravity, this riddle of revenge. Please understand it has to be this way. Something that would be cheesy to hear on its own, but fits perfectly into the Bonnie and Clyde cliche the record is going for. And is here mostly to help build up the album's big conclusion, which sets us not only the finale of the record, but also the culmination of world building many of the songs focusing on these characters are building up to. But before we close off and really dig into that, let's talk about a few other tracks that definitely deserve flowers that they rarely get. Early Sunsets in Monroville is one of the two tracks Frank Aero was able to contribute parts to. This song is beloved by the more hardcore fans of the band, though it's one forgotten by the greater public. And it's honestly kind of tragic because it's a beautiful piece, serving as the breathing point and overall reprise of the record. And a little fun fact, this is actually the song I mentioned about being about Dawn of the Dead. Now, to talk about a more personal favorite of mine that tends to be overshadowed by the rest of the album, we have cubicles. A track I think just about anyone who's worked at a shitty office job can relate to. So I'll spend my time with strangers, a condition and its terminal. And this water cooler romance and it's coming to a close. We could be in the park and dancing by a tree, kicking over blades we see, or a dark beach with a black view, and pin pricks and the velvet catch our fall. Now, to finish off the record, we have the behemoth of a track Demolition lovers. A song that serves less as a conclusion to the album and story of the demolition lover characters, but more so as a new beginning. Perhaps even being a mere to the band themselves and the fact that they were just the story of the demolition lover characters, but more so as a new beginning. Perhaps even being a mirror to the band themselves and the fact that they were just getting started. The song starts slowly with a constant build up. Gerard sings about his deep love for his partner with a haunting and grim implication behind each line. But this time, I mean it. I'll let you know just how much you mean to me. As snow falls on desert skies, until the end of everything. I'm trying. I'm trying to let you know how much you mean. As days fade and nights grow and we grow cold. Until the end, until this pool of blood, until this, I mean this. I mean this until the end. As we know, no Bonnie and Clyde story can truly end happily. As at some point, the sins of their past or even the consequences of a bust gone wrong will ultimately catch up to them. And as the song picks up and becomes heavier and faster, we're hit with the true conclusion of the record. as this, forever forever like As lead rains will pass on through our phantoms forever, forever like scarecrows that fuel this flame. We're burning forever and ever. Know how much I want to show you. You're the only one, like a bed of roses. There's a dozen reasons in this gun, and as we're falling down and in this pool of blood, and as we're touching hands, and as we're falling down, and in this pool of blood, and as we're falling down, I'll see your eyes in this pool of blood. I'll meet your eyes. I mean this forever. The duo are shot down together in the end, painted in the red stain of their life choices. Even in death, declaring that their love is forever. It's a wonderful way to close off what's been a fantastic album, full of shock and tragedy, veiled in creative and well-written music. And while this take on a concept might be a bit half-baked when compared to the band's later efforts, it would not only serve as the foundation for the band's second record, which would also contain songs regarding the demolition lovers, as well as featuring them as the cover itself. But also, I brought you my bullets, you brought me your love, would serve as the foundation of just about everything the band would go on to do. It contained the theatrix, the dynamic songwriting, you brought me your love would serve as the foundation of just about everything the band would go on to do. It contained the theatrics, the dynamic songwriting, the grim violence contrasted by heartfelt themes, even the take on a concept record itself, something the band would become famous for in just a few short years. It's for this reason that I can't recommend I brought you my bullets enough. It's an amazing album and one of the best debuts I've ever heard, especially considering that the band hadn't even been together a full two years at this point. Even if you're someone who has never really been able to get into the band, I recommend giving this one a shot, as it just might be the missing key you need to understand just what makes this band so special.

I Brought You My Bullets, You Brought Me Your Love would go on to become a sleeper hit initially, but would ultimately bring success not too long after. Getting them the attention of Reprise Records, who would quickly sign the band and provide them with funding to befit their talent. At this same juncture, the band would also begin to amass a very large online following during the infancy of social media, with their videos and songs being popular on iTunes and Pure Volume, for anyone who actually remembers that site. Regardless though, it would allow them to tap into the new resource of reaching new listeners. But hey, if we were to go any further from this point, we would be entering the territory of Three Cheers for Sweet Revenge. an album that will be getting its own dedicated deep dive in the future. So, let me formally announce something. This year, I plan to cover all four of MCR's big records, one for each season. So if that's something you're interested in, stay tuned. But before I end the video, I'm going to shill a little bit, so bear with me. As you can see here, these are my current patrons. These are the A1s from day one who keep the cogs of this channel turning. I don't often speak about my Patreon or even my newly created coffee page because outside of the little bumps I do in the middle of the videos, I don't really like to bog down the content by constantly shilling. But with how research intensive and how long it takes to edit these videos, your support is what's going to help keep things going. Due to the fact that I focus my channel heavily on music and media, the greater majority of my videos are demonetized. If it's a music-based video, you can almost guarantee that it's been claimed and demonetized. And while my non-music videos are usually spared this fate, even then with how broken YouTube's copyright system is, many still get claimed and monetization turned off. And while I could water things down and I could remove like certain jokes or songs or uh edit my format, the main reason I do the things I do and I edit the way I edit and I include so many clips is because I don't want to bog down the quality of the content. I'd rather take a pay cut from YouTube than put out something of lesser quality. So that being said, if you would like to help me turn this into a full-time gig or even just show some support for the content, please consider donating to my Patreon or Coffee. But with all that being said, subscribe, follow me on Twitter, and I'll see you in the next video.

Just a few more drops then I'm on my way down this hill. The whole week goes dancing on a floor of God and ask them all about my fall, where I'll be cast away and drops.