This is my second part of my three-part series on how to pass tier one and tier two selections. Today we're going to cover part two, which is how to pass tier two selections. So first, we reiterate my background. I'm a former special forces tier one operator and I also got to be a cadre and an instructor for a tier one selection. So we're talking about tier two and how to pass tier two selections, which cover white SOF, which is your SEALs or your vanilla SEALs, your MARSOC Raiders, your Marine Force Recon, your Rangers, your Green Berets, your AFSOC guys. So the main thing about tier two selections is there is a lot of negative reinforcement. They are trying to break you down and there's a it's a lot of team-oriented events. These are the two things that separate it the most from tier one selections because tier one is more individual and actually they give you no, they don't give you any negative or positive reinforcement. I have three main tips on how to pass tier two selections. Tip one, is be fit and show up with the right type of fitness. Which means not just being good at running, you have to one, be familiar with the water. Not every selection involves water, but a lot of them do. And then two, you need to be able to move heavy weights. And what I mean by that is you need to learn how to lift. You lift heavy weights, but because most of what you are going to be doing is rucking. And if you don't know how to move with weight, you're screwed. I have seen so many guys who are like amazing ultra marathon runners and it's the great equalizer. As soon as they throw a 50 to 60 pound ruck on their back, and then they're toast and then they're just falling behind on everybody. If you can, learn how to ruck run. It's not as important in tier two selections. In tier one, it's a necessity. But if you're able to ruck run, which is basically you're able to run any flat or downhill surface and then you walk the uphill services, you're going to be able to crush it. My second tip is to be a great teammate and don't be a tool. These are team oriented events and I can tell you in a lot of these selections, you can be peered out. So you don't really want to stand out and if you do, you want to stand out for the right reasons, but basically be the gray man. Don't spotlight yourself, work with your teammates. This is one of the only times, because in tier one you don't get this. In tier two selections, you'll be working with you can with your teammates and you get to rely on them while everybody your life is miserable, you can work together, you can bond to get through the suck, all right? So don't alienate your teammates. Be reliable, always be on time, be with the right equipment, try to be at least five minutes early to every event. And you want to help your teammates without making a show of it. They don't want superstars, they want great teammates. Almost all tier two selection and organizations are all designed around teams and how you help within the team. It isn't until you get to the higher tiers that you start working in such smaller teams or almost individual missions. and that's why this is so much more important in tier two is the team aspect. I've literally seen people who were amazing, probably one of the best people in selection, literally get kicked out because they were prima donnas. So don't do that. Never be the drama, don't complain, ever. Don't gossip or argue, don't brag, and don't make excuses. So tip number three is never quit. Embrace the misery. This is going to suck. It's designed to suck. All right? So when you're going through training, don't avoid the misery in training, embrace it. Trust me, it will help you. You want to stay positive, no matter what. If you screw up, you fall, something happens, stay positive. It's all about how you get through things. The most people that passed, they're not necessarily the fastest, they're the ones who kept going. You have to be able to master your self-talk and you also need to know why you're here. If you showed up and you came for anybody but yourself, you're already losing. And when it at 3:00 in the morning, you're wet, you're tired, you are in the middle of nowhere, you don't even know where you are. That's when your mind is like starting to turn on you. You have to have the self and the mental discipline to turn it, stay positive, don't, don't ever quit. Right? Everything is one step at a time. Take every event as just that event. Don't worry about the event afterwards, don't worry about the next day, all right? And I know this is a title of a book, but it's one of my favorite, "The only easy day was yesterday." Because remember, this is you are going to go through pain, you're going to go through difficulties. And remember, this is just a moment in time. You will get through it. And this difficulty will turn you and make you into the better person, the person that you've always wanted to be. This is a great opportunity and amazing experience that you should take full advantage of and embrace the suck. So when you get down to it and everything is really, really sucking, just remember, it's just take one step at a time and I promise you you will get there. If you never say the words I quit, you're gonna make it through. I promise. I hope that was informative. Uh if you guys have any questions, um feel free to leave comments. I try to respond to every comment that you guys leave. And uh within the next day couple days, I'm going to release part three, which is how once again how the differences of how tier one selections differ and how to, my best advice for passing a tier one selection. Hope you guys enjoyed this video. I will talk to you guys later.