Good evening. I'm Jeff Bennett.  On the Nawaz is away on the NewsHour tonight. President Trump announces a ceasefire between Israel and Iran hours after Iran launched missiles at a US base in the Middle East in retaliation for the strikes on its nuclear facilities. New York City prepares to vote in the Democratic mayoral primary that could have national implications.

In many ways they represent the two poles that are vying for the direction and the compass of the national uh Democratic Party.

And Alaska's Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski discusses her new memoir about adapting to Washington politics and the Trump era.

When I'm here in Washington DC, I feel not only physically far from home, but just kind of I'm away from from who I am, my identity, my roots.


Major funding for the PBS NewsHour has been provided by

the ongoing support of these individuals and institutions

and friends of the NewsHour, including Leonard and Norma Klorfine and the Judy and Peter Bloom Kovler Foundation.


Two retiring executives turn their focus to greyhounds, giving these former race dogs a real chance to win. A Raymond James financial advisor gets to know you, your purpose, and the way you give back. Life well planned.

The Ford Foundation, working with visionaries on the front lines of social change worldwide.

And with the ongoing support of these individuals and institutions.


This program was made possible by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and by contributions to your PBS station from viewers like you. Thank you.

Welcome to the NewsHour. It was a dramatic day in the Middle East. Iran launched a series of ballistic missiles at a US military base in the Middle East, but it simultaneously indicated a desire to de-escalate. And this evening, President Trump announced a ceasefire between Israel and Iran, which began this recent conflict when it attacked Iran and its nuclear program 12 days ago. Nick Schifrin starts our coverage.

Above Doha's skyline tonight, the first ever Iranian attack on the largest US military base in the Middle East. The US says Iran fired more than a dozen short and medium range ballistic missiles at Al Udeid Air Base, nearly all intercepted and causing no casualties. Al Udeid is usually home to more than 10,000 service members, but much of it was evacuated before tonight's attack, which Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps broadcast claiming complete success.

The Islamic Republic of Iran will not leave any act of aggression against its territorial integrity, sovereignty or national security unanswered under any circumstances.

But Iran warned Washington and Qatar before the attack. It did not try to choke off global oil supplies.

Nor did it try to strike any other US base in the region. And it signaled a desire for de-escalation, saying in a separate statement it used the quote same number of missiles as the number of bombs the United States used in attacking Iran's nuclear facilities, even if that claim was inflated. At the White House, after meeting with his national security team, President Trump called Iran's response quote very weak and wrote, I want to thank Iran for giving us early notice, which made it possible for no lives to be lost and nobody to be injured. Perhaps Iran can now proceed to peace and harmony in the region, and I will enthusiastically encourage Israel to do the same.

As of this morning, that was not what Israel was signaling. Smoke towered over Tehran's tallest buildings after what Israel called its most widespread air strikes on Tehran, including symbols of Iran's theocratic power. In Northern Tehran, an air strike hit the gates of the notorious Evin prison, which holds many domestic and foreign political detainees. Israel also said it struck the headquarters of the IRGC in Tehran and of the Basij, the regime's paramilitary troops who enforce the silencing of all descent. Analysts say today's attack is a message to Iranians who want to protest their government, they should feel free to do so. IDF spokesperson Brigadier General  Efi Daffrin.

The internal security forces are a significant part of the security and immunity of the Iranian regime. We will continue to target every component and layer of the regime that is involved in activities that threaten the state of Israel.

Israel today also struck the access routes to the Fordo enrichment site where this weekend the US dropped a dozen bunker buster bombs that entered two precise sites before exploding deep underground. Today, the head of the UN's nuclear watchdog said the US attack appeared to be successful.

Given the explosive payload utilized and the extreme vibration sensitive nature of centrifuges, very significant damage is to have occurred is expected to have occurred.

And our Nick Schifrin joins us now. So Nick, let's talk about this newly announced ceasefire. What more do you know?

President Trump posted that the ceasefire would start about midnight tonight Eastern, uh so in the morning in in Iran and Israel. Uh that Iran would start a 12-hour ceasefire. Uh President Trump said then Israel would start a 12-hour ceasefire. So in 24 hours there will be a complete ceasefire. Uh and at that point he said quote the war would be ended. It would be declared the 12-day war. Now, uh I just checked with Israeli officials. There's no confirmation of this at this hour, but presumably this is the agreement that has been uh set uh by Israel uh with President Trump uh and the Iranians have agreed to this. Uh President Trump wrote, this could have gone on for years, but didn't. Um the assessment of the quote 12-day war, if that uh actually catches on from Israel's perspective will be a severe degradation of Iran's nuclear capacity and missile capacity as well. Uh and a demonstration, perhaps as we've been talking Jeff, by the IDF that they can reach into Israel uh and attack regime targets that go beyond nuclear and missile sites. But perhaps the lasting legacy for Israel uh of this 12-day war, uh again if that name holds, uh is that the United States got into it. Uh and that specifically the degradation that only a US weapon could do, that 30,000 pound bomb dropped by a B-2 bomber, uh 12 of them uh on Fordo enrichment site, two of them uh as well on Natanz, 30 more missiles uh at Isfahan. That is something that Israel could not do. And so the legacy of this 12 days is that Israel will have gotten the United States into this war and the US did something that only the US could do, really degrade the program that the US believes uh is now set back by years.

And the Vice President this evening, Nick, JD Vance, he gave an interview where he shared more details about that US attack. What did he have to say?

So he spoke to uh Fox uh just uh a few minutes ago on on the East Coast, um and he said uh that Iran was quote now incapable of building a nuclear weapon with the equipment that it had because the US had destroyed it and quote obliterated it. Uh there will be a debate uh about whether he is accurate about that, but what he is talking about uh is the US claim or assessment right now that the Iranian program that uses centrifuges to spin fuel to create highly enriched uranium, which has created 60% uranium which is one step below 90% weapons grade, they no longer have either the access to those centrifuges uh or those centrifuges have been broken beyond repair. That was his word. His uh word uh is that um uh uh the the and and then separately he said the stockpile is buried. Why that is important is that if Iran were to use what it has now to try and create nuclear uh a nuclear bomb, uh it would need that 60% highly enriched uranium. What Vance is saying tonight is that stockpile is actually buried. Uh what he also said is that this is a new opportunity to pursue peace. Uh and that's what we've been discussing also. Could this moment lead to some kind of new negotiation? Um it certainly could. Iran has been saying that it would was willing to negotiate uh if Israel stopped. So that box is checked. However, uh before Israel's campaign started 12 days ago, um there was a deadlock. The United States was demanding that Iran give up any domestic enrichment and instead go to some kind of regional consortium where they would import the nuclear fuel, import the uranium. Iran was insisting that it domestically enrich and in fact that that insistence they repeated just in the last few days after all of these attacks. So if there is uh an opening for negotiations with the war ending, then that's fine, but the deadlock Jeff, that existed two weeks ago still remains.

Nick Schifrin, thanks to you for that reporting.

Thank you.

And for analysis we're joined now by retired Vice Admiral Kevin Donohue. He commanded the US Fifth Fleet, which is based in Bahrain. He's now a distinguished military fellow at the Middle East Institute. Thank you for joining us. I want to start with your reaction to President Trump posting on social media this evening what he called a complete and total ceasefire between Israel and Iran.

Yes, so uh for those of us that uh around the world that that look hard at the Middle East, there's one certainty and that's that we're going to be surprised. You know, we were surprised at uh the way that Israel started this and when they started it. We were surprised at the way that uh the US entered this and now we're surprised again here because this is just a few hours after this retaliatory strike on Al Udeid, we now have this announced ceasefire. And uh you know, I think it's a good thing. Uh anytime you can get a conflict to pause and have a ceasefire it presents an opportunity. So uh now the question is Nick was clearly laying out is can we take advantage of that opportunity? I I want to add one more piece. It's a different uh it's a different Iran now than it was before this started. It's it's IRGC is weakened. Uh there uh it's it's nuclear capability is is degraded to the extent that uh it'll be determined in time. And as a result the regime is somewhat weakened from where it was before. So uh when you add that to the fact that Syria is now no longer an ally of them, that Hezbollah has been decimated, that Hamas has been destroyed and the Houthis are weakened, you can see that uh this uh the opportunity for maybe a potential change in in the Iranian stance is out there, but time's going to tell.

Well on that point, I mean who is calling the shots in Tehran right now, given the fact that their uh senior military leadership uh was decimated. I mean what does all of this say about their command control capacity?

Well, first uh I think we know who's calling the shots and it's the supreme leader of course. He's setting the tone for how they're going to act and the replacements will come in with with his uh tone and tenor, uh right. But but there are coming in uh and the reason that they're weakened is because it's hard for them to know who to talk to, how to talk to because they don't know who's listening uh and what the Israelis were going to do. But uh so so their main action arm is weakened and and that is you know therefore that overall uh weakens their uh their military and overall weakens the regime to some extent, which which like I said perhaps this is an opportunity. So who's calling the shots uh is the supreme leader.

And what was the message that Iran intended to send with its retaliatory strike?

I think uh the message they sent was the one that we all read into it right away. They didn't attack uh to the level that we they could have. They could have gone wider with the bases they attacked. They could have attacked bases uh like the Fifth Fleet headquarters and other places that are around population centers, but instead they chose to attack uh Al Udeid, which is relatively isolated. There's no other population out there and they didn't uh and that barrage was able to be defeated. In other words they they set up a symbolic attack against the US that they knew would be uh blunted and repelled. Uh and that that I think was to affirm to President Trump and and the Israelis especially though President Trump that they are ready to uh negotiate. Now we're going to see because it's very complex in terms of uh we don't know where they stand on that red line related to their enrichment.

When the Vice President JD Vance said today in an interview that Iran's stockpile is buried, what does that mean in a real sense? I mean what's your assessment of just how degraded, destroyed and set back Iran's nuclear program is?

Well, first we know that uh that the attack on Fordo was successful. Even heard the UN make that assessment and uh you know you have to give tremendous credit to those uh those that were all involved in in that operation to get into Fordo because that was one of the things that the Israelis had on their list as a must do. They believe this operation wouldn't be successful and they and they were vocal about it unless they were able to get at Fordo and they did. Uh what hasn't been covered in great detail and we'll maybe learn in the coming days is how much of the rest of uh the nuclear targets that the Israelis had on their list did they uh get degraded to the amount that uh that they wanted to. Uh I would suspect that they serviced them to the level that they wanted to or they wouldn't be uh offering up or agreeing to uh stopping at this point. So uh but but time will tell on that and and uh and uh as for the president Vice President remarks, I think you know they stand for themselves.

Well the President having announced this total ceasefire, we we will see if this ceasefire is lasting, but what's the path back at this point to the negotiating table?

Well so now uh you know the good news is uh that we have a path for how to negotiate with Iran. You know for years we didn't have that path and and we've already now had negotiations that were direct between the United States and Iran and that that's what uh we all want to look for is is you know just before uh the United States got involved in this attack there was a planned uh meeting uh again uh between both sides in in Oman and that got cancelled, it was on Sunday. And uh so my expectation is that'll get right back on the table very quickly and and then we'll find out pretty quickly uh where both sides stands in in terms of those the major issues we just talked about.

You have been involved throughout your career in a lot of planning for war with Iran. Did any of those scenarios for which you prepared have these many turns, these kinds of turns?

Uh you know the uh the one thing I've learned in 38 years of dealing with military operations is every plan you make fails at first contact with uh with the enemy and first contact of putting it into execution. So uh the the the value that uh that you put into uh your plan is in getting everyone to be aligned into what they need to achieve so as things change, they can adjust. And and actually you saw some of that with the Israelis as opportunity presented itself to get at other targets, they took those opportunities and it wasn't a sure thing that that the US would get involved to to finish off Fordo, so I'm sure the Israelis had other options to do that. We saw some of them uh come to fruition today where they denied access to Fordo uh after the attacks. So uh to me uh the classic military operation is is that the plan isn't going to be the one that ends up being executed, but the plan is what aligns everyone and enables them the flexibility to adjust as as things change in the operation.

Retired Vice Admiral Kevin Donohue, now with the Middle East Institute. Thanks for your time this evening, sir. We deeply appreciate it.

Thanks Jeff.

And for more on Congress's role in all of this, we are joined by our Capitol Hill correspondent Lisa Desjardins. So Lisa, let's talk about the policy involved here and who determines uh when the US strikes another country. What's the debate in Congress right now?

Yeah, it's basic civics. Congress has the power to declare war, but under Article 2, the President oversees military operations. In reality, Congress has not declared war since 1942 and it has been Presidents acting unilaterally uh have been war actions for the United States. Now members of both parties for a long time have had a problem with this in Congress, but it is usually only the opposition party that does anything about it or attempts to challenge war powers. And indeed, Democrats now are about to bring war power resolutions to the floor of both the House and the Senate. The first one we expect to get a vote will be in the Senate. But in the House, Speaker Johnson said today to reporters that he opposes any efforts to check the President right now.

I don't think this is an appropriate time for war powers resolution and I don't think it's necessary. Listen, uh for 80 years uh Presidents of both parties have acted with the same Commander-in-Chief authority under Article 2.

But this is where the process matters. This is a privileged resolution, so Johnson may be forced to have a vote on the House floor and we do expect a forced vote on the Senate floor on Iran this week.

And that's with the Democratic Senator from Virginia, Tim Kaine, who is who introduced that bill. Tell us more about that and how this will play out in the Senate floor.

That's right. I think the resolution speaks well for itself. Let me read you exactly what's in this proposal from Senator Kaine. He would have this vote say, Congress hereby directs the President to terminate the use of United States armed forces for hostilities against the Islamic Republic of Iran unless explicitly authorized by a declaration of war or specific authorization. That is very clear. You cannot have military action against Iran without explicit permission from Congress. Now, it's interesting in the Senate usually 60 votes are required. In this case, only 51. So we will be watching if indeed enough Republicans join Democrats to pass this. It's possible. We know at least one Rand Paul. It's also possible that happens in the House, but should this resolution pass, the President can veto it. So it ultimately is likely symbolic, but it is important.

And what does that debate look like in the House?

Right. I think it is a furious debate for Republicans looking at this, thinking about it to me Jeff, this may be the most politically risky move President Trump has ever taken. Now with the ceasefire announcement, we see Republicans feeling a little bit better already about what was going on. But this is the breakdown. He has on one side of the MAGA base, uh people who wanted this kind of bold action against American enemies. People like Lindsey Graham. Um here's what he said this weekend over on uh Sunday shows.

I thought it was bold, quite frankly brilliant militarily, necessary and most importantly effective. So well done Mr. President to your your team and our militaries and fantastic operation that has substantially degraded I think Iran's nuclear program.

But let's contrast that with another Mar-a-Lago frequent visitor, that's Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia. Here's what she posted today um on social media. She wrote uh that uh Trump's MAGA agenda included these key promises, no more foreign wars, no more regime change. She wrote, it feels like a complete bait and switch to please the neocons. She went on writing, after the bombs were dropped, we were told complete success and Iran's nuclear capabilities were wiped out. Then it turned to Iran's nuclear facilities partially damaged. Now we don't know where their enriched uranium is. Those are some sharp words, things you'd usually hear from Democrats. I will say just in the past couple of minutes Jeff, I've been watching members of Congress. She just tweeted out because of the ceasefire, thank you President Trump for pursuing peace. So that is a wild 180, but it is still an interesting fracture in the Republican base we've got to watch.

And do members of Congress have a good sense of how much damage the US attacks caused and if not, will they get some later this week?

I believe some of them do. Speaker Mike Johnson received a classified briefing, but the Gang of Eight, the top Democratic and Republican leaders, I'm told has not had a classified briefing though Democratic leaders have requested it. A source tells me that Democratic House Leader Hakeem Jeffries has asked for more information and has still not gotten it.

Lisa Desjardins, thanks as always. We appreciate it.

You're welcome.


In the day's other headlines, the US Supreme Court is allowing the Trump administration to restart deportations of migrants to countries other than their own. The case stems from an instance last month when immigration officials sent eight people on a plane to South Sudan, though they were then diverted to Djibouti. A judge in Boston found that violated his court order giving people a chance to argue that they could face torture if deported. The Supreme Court said its order will remain in place while the government appeals the Boston judge's ruling. All three liberal members of the court dissented. Also today, the Supreme Court said it will not hear an appeal from the state of Virginia over its lifetime voting ban for convicted felons. That decision allows two disenfranchised would-be voters to pursue their challenge to the law, which is one of the strictest in the nation. Separately, the justices will take up an appeal from a former Louisiana inmate who's seeking to sue prison officials for forcibly shaving his head back in 2020. Damon Landor is a Rastafarian who had not cut his hair for almost 20 years. The justices will hear arguments in that case in the fall. Turning now to the summer scorcher that's hitting much of the Eastern US, a heatwave is stretching from the Gulf Coast to the upper Midwest and all the way to Maine. All told, some 170 million Americans are currently under heat alerts. That's about half the nation's entire population. The heat plus humidity will make temperatures feel like they're above 100 degrees in many places.

It's that like uh like walking through a swamp kind of kind of feeling. My thoughts on the heat warnings are you know you got to be careful. You can't you got to stay hydrated and

The sprawling heat will last for most of the week, leaving little relief in sight. Of course it's summer and that always means higher temperatures, but meteorologists say not like this and not so early in the season. Some pockets of the country, the places you see in darkest red, are expected to see temperatures this week upwards of 20 degrees above normal.

The number of abortions in the US rose in 2024 due to a growing number of women obtaining abortion pills via telehealth. A report out today found that one in four abortions last year used pills prescribed virtually. That's up from one in 20 just before the Supreme Court overturned Roe v Wade three years ago. The increase could explain why fewer women crossed state lines to receive abortions in 2024 compared to the year earlier. It comes amid a flurry of lawsuits and proposed legislation in Republican led states aiming to restrict access to abortion pills.

In Ukraine, officials say a Russian missile and drone attack overnight killed at least 14 civilians. Nine of those deaths were in the capital Kiev. Rescuers spent the morning pulling bodies from the rubble, including at this apartment building. Meanwhile, NATO chief Mark Rutte pledged continued unwavering support for Ukraine as leaders gather in the Netherlands for this week's summit. Member nations are expected to agree to a pledge to allocate 5% of their GDP to defense spending. Rutte said today there will be no opt outs or exceptions.

It is now clear what kind of investment it will take to effectively deliver what we need. And it is critical that each ally carries their fair share of the burden. This is a quantum leap that is ambitious, historic and fundamental to securing our future.

Rutte's comments add a level of uncertainty to Spain's announcement over the weekend that it had reached a deal to be excluded from the new 5% target. Last year Spain allocated just over 1% on its defense, making it the lowest spender in the alliance. President Trump's media company is buying back $400 million worth of its own stock. Such moves often help lift a company's trading price. Shares of Trump Media and Technology Group, which runs the Truth Social platform, have dropped more than 40% this year. The stock ended about a third of 1% higher following the announcement. As for Wall Street as a whole, stocks rallied after that relatively restrained military response from Iran. The Dow Jones Industrial Average added around 375 points. The Nasdaq jumped nearly 200 points. The S&P 500 also ended higher to start the week.

The largest digital camera ever built has released its first snapshots of the universe. The Vera C. Rubin Observatory in Chile captured these images showing stars, nebulas and entire galaxies, thousands of light years from Earth. The US funded observatory will survey the southern sky for the next decade with the goal of documenting some 20 billion galaxies. Just a few days ago, astronomers at the European Southern Observatory's very large telescope, also in Chile, released this image of a nearby spiral galaxy.

And the acclaimed war correspondent Rod Nordland has died. Over four decades he covered most of the world's major conflicts for the New York Times and other publications. Nordland also wrote a memoir called Waiting for the Monsoon about living with glioblastoma, that's an aggressive form of brain cancer. He spoke to our Nick Schifrin last year about how the disease changed him for the better.

The tumor made me look at my the mistakes I have made in life and do things to correct them and really did bring me a second life which was a tremendous gift, an opportunity to fix whatever I had done wrong in the first life.

Rod Nordland was 75 years old. Still to come on the NewsHour, New York City prepares to vote in a primary race that could forecast the future of the Democratic Party. Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski discusses her new memoir and Tamron Hall and Amy Walter break down the latest political headlines.


This is the PBS NewsHour from the David M. Rubenstein Studio at WETA in Washington and in the West from the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism at Arizona State University.


Tomorrow voters will head to the polls for the primary that will determine which of the 11 Democrats running will take on New York City Mayor Eric Adams in November. The race has shaped up as a contest between a well-known establishment figure seeking a political comeback and a rising young Democratic socialist who has mounted an unexpected challenge. William Branham has this preview.

Have you heard of Zoëran Mandani before?

It's a question many New Yorkers can answer affirmatively now. Ever since Zoëran Mamdani, the 33-year-old assemblyman from Queens, surged to become one of the biggest surprises in this New York mayoral primary.

We need a mayor who's going to fight to lower the cost of living for New Yorkers and actually stand up to Trump. We're ready to stand up and fight back!

The young Democratic socialist has risen dramatically in polls in the last few months, driven by an army of volunteers and a charismatic social media presence.

Who knew that policies like universal child care, rent freezes and taxes on mega corporations were popular?

We did. To me Zoëran is the real deal. He's not just words, he's action as well. And does he get it right all the time? Nobody does, right? But I think he is our best chance at having a New York City that is livable and affordable for everyone. 758

But in Brooklyn, volunteers with the Service Employees International Union are knocking on doors for Mamdani's main rival.

A candidate who needs little introduction to New Yorkers. Yes. What we're going to give her is this saying that we support Andrew Cuomo.

Andrew Cuomo was governor of New York for a decade before resigning in 2021 after a flurry of sexual harassment allegations. The moment he entered the mayor's race, he was instantly the presumptive front runner, riding high on name recognition and support from many unions and local officials.

We are here because we know we can turn New York City around. We have already showed what leadership and confidence and unity can do.

Cuomo's message that he's got years of experience to bring to the office starting on day one, resonates with a lot of New Yorkers.

I saw the great job that he did during COVID and I said, you know what? This is this is my guy. I got to go up there for him.

You have different ideologies, very different backstories between the two front runners, but also it's a reflection of what do voters as consumers in the political market, what do they really want?

Trip Yang is a Democratic strategist in New York. He's not affiliated with any of the mayoral candidates.

Andrew Cuomo was running on managerial experience. I know how to run a state, I can therefore govern the largest city no training required. Right. Zoëran Mamdani is banking that New York City Democratic voters view an election for mayor as a sales pitch not a job interview. They want to be inspired.

What is it about Mamdani that you find appealing? Um, I think he's very smart and he's run a good campaign and I think he has a kind of charisma that will unite the city.

Who would you like to see win? Andrew Cuomo. How come? Because I think he's a terrific politician. I think he understands how to run things. You know, he's a tough guy. In today's soft world, you're not allowed to be tough any longer. That's what's going on. Everybody has to just be milk toast and Cuomo will never be milk toast.

That reputation for toughness and experience also comes with a heavy load of political baggage, something Mamdani skewered him for in a recent debate.

To put a person in this seat at that at this time with no experience is reckless and dangerous.

To Mr. Cuomo, I have never had to resign in disgrace. I have never cut Medicaid. I have never stolen hundreds of millions of dollars from the MTA. I have never hounded the 13 women who credibly accused me of sexual harassment.

In many ways they represent the two poles that are vying for uh the direction and the compass of the national uh Democratic Party.

Patrick Gaspard has advised multiple New York mayors and served as political director for President Barack Obama. He says the argument that Mamdani is too inexperienced, a critique Obama faced as well, is cutting both ways in this race.

Zoëran Mamdani has attempted to make an argument about how that experience hasn't always served uh the interest of working people, right? Because this experience question is a double edged sword. I think that Andrew Cuomo came into this race and drew a picture of a kind of a dystopia in New York that interestingly was not dissimilar to the picture that Donald Trump drew of New York. Everything's falling apart and I alone can save you from it.

And of course, the specter of President Trump looms large in this campaign with candidates weighing in on everything from immigration policy to the recent bombing of Iran.

I know how to deal with Donald Trump because I've dealt with him before. I am Donald Trump's worst nightmare as a progressive Muslim immigrant who actually fights for the things that I believe in. Democrats at large, but especially Democrats in New York are looking for purists against Donald Trump or outraged by the violations of the Constitution and Democrats want to see us fighting against them. Do you have a judicial warrant? That fight spilled overtly into the campaign last week when City Controller and mayoral candidate Brad Lander was arrested by federal agents while escorting a man from court.

You don't have the authority to arrest US citizens asking for a judicial warrant.

Both Cuomo and Mamdani condemned the arrest, but Trump's fingerprints have also been on this race because of his intervention for a candidate who's not on Tuesday's ballot.

Mr. Mayor, do you read

Last September, New York City Mayor Eric Adams was indicted on federal corruption charges. Adams out now!

But then the Trump administration dropped that prosecution as Mayor Adams agreed to help Trump's hard line approach to immigration.

I wanted to run in a Democratic primary but I have to be realistic.

In April, facing plummeting approval ratings, Adams said he'd run for reelection as an independent.

It doesn't matter what happens in the Democratic primary. If it's Andrew Cuomo as the nominee and Zoëran Mamdani running on a third party or vice versa, Eric Adams has no shot. Party loyalty in November reigns supreme.

But there's another major factor in this race and that is that voters are using what's called ranked choice voting, which allows them to choose up to five different candidates ranked in order of their preference.

If one candidate gets more than 50% of everyone's first choice votes, they win the election right away. But if no one hits that threshold, the lowest ranked candidate is eliminated and anyone who chose that person will have their vote transferred to their next ranked candidate. These rounds of tabulation continue until there are only two candidates left and whoever has the most votes wins. Hey. Hey.

The process has also led candidates like Mamdani and Lander asking their voters to rank each other on their ballots so that if one loses the other benefits.

Let's do it together. We're cross endorsing.

But as the race has tightened with Mamdani's rise, a tidal wave of super pack money has come in to bolster Cuomo, including more than $8 million from billionaire and former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg.

Zoëran Mamdani, a risk New York can't afford.

Mamdani would be the city's first Muslim mayor and he's been criticized for calling Israel's actions in Gaza a genocide. In recent days, Mamdani says he's received death threats calling him a terrorist.

Regardless of Tuesday's outcome, Cuomo says he'll also run as an independent in the general election, a move that Mamdani could also consider. So a second round is possible come November. For the PBS NewsHour, I'm William Branham in New York City.


Senator Lisa Murkowski, the independent-minded Republican from Alaska, often defied President Trump during his first term, breaking with him on key issues and nominations. She's now opening up in a candid memoir called Far From Home, which she discussed recently with our Amna Nawaz.

Senator Murkowski, welcome to the NewsHour. Thanks for joining us.

Great to be with you, Amna.

So the why behind someone writing a book always fascinates me and in the very first pages you really make it clear. You say my hope is when you learn my story, my struggles and my fears, you'll realize that you can do this too. We need you. Only good people can get our government back on track. Why is it that you think good people, as you put it right now, don't necessarily want your job or want to join government?

I think first of all, people think it's too hard. Um in order to be uh in elected office, I have to have some kind of a resume, right? I've got to have built my my way up uh in order to get to this position and I don't have that. Or perhaps they look at um but how you get there. Quite honestly, in order to run uh a Senate race it's expensive. I don't want to deal with the fundraising. I don't think that I can and I don't have personal means to do it and so that's a disqualifier. But I think even more important is the the sense that it's just it's just such an awful environment right now.

Yeah. Is this fun? Is this rewarding when it seems like everyone is just bickering and we can't let those barriers get in the way of good people stepping forward to serve at any level. We've got to keep reinforcing that it is it is average people that are willing to make a commitment to service that do extraordinary things.

You've been asked this repeatedly, but I have to ask because people say, you know, this could be a pivot point, a launching pad for something else and you said I do not want to be President.

Oh yeah, that's for sure. Why why don't you want to be President? What do you think you you couldn't do about that job or don't want to do?

It's no accident that my book is named Far From Home um because when I'm here in Washington DC, I feel not only physically far from home, but just kind of I'm away from from who I am, my identity, my roots. Um and quite honestly, in order to be President of the United States, you need to love all parts of our country equally. I love my country. I am an American. I am a patriot, but I really love Alaska and I don't know how I could be President and not give them preferential treatment. So I just have to be upfront with it. Um yeah.

Your very own assessment of our current President of President Trump is pretty blunt in the book. You write quote, in your dealings with him that it was evident he could not have planned his own rise or engineered the transformation of the Supreme Court. You write, he isn't that smart. Trump lacks the ability for strategic or linear thinking. He isn't able to form or follow through on complex plans. That's an incredibly worrying description of the man who's leading this nation right now. I mean, do you trust him to make strategically sound decisions?

So keep in mind that when when I wrote that, um we were in the first Trump administration. The idea of a second round um uh for President Trump was was not even being discussed at that point in time. And I think there's a very different Donald Trump between the first administration and the second administration. In in terms of his understanding of the operations of of government, um you know the role of Congress,