Five things to know ahead of the opening bell today. It's jobs Friday. Number one, pulled forecaster expect an increase of 125,000 non-farm payrolls in May. The unemployment rate is expected to hold steady. Remember ADP on Friday, it's not the same thing, not necessarily indicative, maybe even jobs claim, jobless claims might be more of jolts or something, but that was a little bit weak. This was unbelievable yesterday. I wondered, didn't you, about circle shares of stablecoin company circle sharply higher in pre-market trading after a big move yesterday. I think it was priced at like 31, stock opened at 69. Uh, and today it's all the way up to 94. Uh, up another 13%, and the shares of Lulu Lemon. I wanted uh to lead with that this morning. I I suggested that this would I I I did a double take when I saw this. No, I mean the top of the show. Oh, Lulu Lemon? Yeah, kidding. there's some other stuff, right? A couple other things Yeah, interceded in President Xi didn't even get top. Yeah, President Xi didn't even get uh uh what she said. Uh didn't even get Uh Plum earnings and revenue, uh and the other guys He. Huh. He and she, right? Huh and she. Huh, he, yeah. Revenue beat estimates but comps uh sales growth of 1% missed estimates of 3%. The company cut its full year uh guidance citing a dynamic macro environment. The CFO said they're planning strategic price increases to mitigate uh the effects of tariffs. And then you got the shares of DocuSign sharply lower. Earnings and revenue beat estimates, but billings in the first quarter uh came in weaker than expected. Um, the guidance That's a big move too. Yeah, the company's guidance for billing in the current quarter also came in below estimates. Broadcom earnings and revenue came in slightly higher than analysts expected and current quarter guidance also beat estimates on strong AI uh revenue growth. Uh, but the stock's pulling back a bit after a strong run up since the recent uh low hit in early April, just after President Trump announced uh the sweeping tariff plan. Stock's up about 70% from the April. There were some concerns from the Broadcom call yesterday that maybe all of this AI growth is not going to be quite as strong as had been hoped for, had been anticipated. That's what they said.