Ambassador, uh, two questions to do with China Central Television. First, a US Congressman today sent a letter to nominate President Trump, Nobel Peace Prize. What is your opinion? And secondly, many leaders talking about another ceasefire, which is Gaza ceasefire. Do you think it's a good time now to talk about Gaza ceasefire? Thank you.

Well, firstly, I think that President Trump deserves a Nobel Peace Prize. I think we should thank him for for his leadership, for the brave decision he took, uh, and to recognize the effort of the United States. Regarding your second question, yes, we hope to see, uh, a ceasefire also in Gaza. There's a proposal on the table that the Ambassador Witkoff put forward and we hope to renew the negotiations on that proposal.

Mr. Ambassador, um, can you tell us what the follow-up to this ceasefire announcement is going to be? Are there going to be diplomatic, uh, talks between Iran and Israel? Is this something that Israel would like to see? The Iranians have already indicated that they want to see talks.

Well, it is after every military operation or conflict, you have the diplomatic, uh, efforts. And I I'm sure it will be the case also in this scenario. Because diplomacy failed, we had to act and the USA had to act. So I think yes, we will have to, uh, speak and negotiate, uh, and make sure that we will not repeat and get to the situation where we were 12 days ago when we had a major threat in the Middle East.

Uh, Mr. Ambassador

Well, it's too early, it's too early. You know, we just, uh, announced about the ceasefire today, but I believe it will happen soon.

Mr. Ambassador, you're talking about

Thank you so much. Thank you. I'm from RIA Novosti. Uh, would you support the Security Council, uh, having a resolution on the ceasefire between Israel and Iran? And would you maybe discuss it with your Iranian counterpart in person?

So I I don't have any communication with any representative at the UN. I don't think that we need a Security Council resolution. The parties accepted the proposal of President Trump. But, uh, maybe in the future there will be a place for involvement of the UN organization.

Ambassador, Ambassador, Ambassador,  Hamas said that it removed most of its highly enriched uranium before the strike, before hours. Israel knows where it is. And President Trump said the program was being dismantled. Does Israel agree with that? What's your assessment?

Well, I think it's it's still early to to assess, uh, all the strikes. We know we were able to push back, uh, the program. We were able to remove the imminent threat that we had. And Prime Minister Netanyahu spoke about the UN, you mentioned that we think we have an knowledge about it, but we cannot go into details about it.

Mr. Ambassador,