Five things to know ahead of today's opening bell. Elon Musk walking back his criticism of President Trump in a post on X just after 3:00 a.m. Eastern time, he wrote, I regret some of my posts about President Trump last week. They went too far. Still up or like us um awake. Hard to know with him. With President Trump, I would say waking up early. With Elon Musk, I think he's probably. Oh, that was my point. Yeah. I think he's still up. Don't you think? Probably. Probably. I don't know him well enough to know his. Maybe he doesn't sleep at all. My guess is, yeah, he doesn't have a normal. Although, I I take that back. He had said at one point that he was he had said at one point that he wants to get at least six hours of sleep because he tried less than that and it was sub-optimal. He did. Sleep under desk at his factories. But he he has made some comments about how. If sleep does anything for synapses or neurotransmitters, uh he needs to No, he especially and he needs to sleep. His are firing pretty rapidly. Separately, Elon Musk said that Tesla's Robo taxi service is tentatively set to launch in Austin, Texas on June 22nd, but he said they are being super paranoid in his words about safety so that they could ship. And US and China negotiators say that they have reached an agreement to get the Geneva consensus back on track. The deal reached in Geneva back in May included the suspension of some tariffs and easing of key export restrictions, but the United States and China had accused each other of cheating since then. And a federal appeals court saying it will allow President Trump's sweeping tariffs to remain in effect while it reviews a lower court decision that blocked them. That lower court had ruled that the president exceeded the authority of the Emergency Economic Powers Act that was used to justify the tariffs. Arguments are scheduled for July 31st. And Treasury Secretary Scott Bezant is a contender to be the next Fed chair. That's according to a Bloomberg report that says advisors inside and outside the administration have been recommending him for the job. But the White House called that report fake news. Fake news.