This is part one of a three-part series of how to pass tier one and tier two selections. Part one will be covering the differences between tier one and tier two units and also with a focus on how they do selections differently. First, to cover my background. I'm former Special Forces, a tier one operator, and after I passed selection, about four years after I passed selection, I had the honor and the privilege to actually be a cadre/instructor for a tier one selection. So I got to see, not only, I was behind the scenes and I got to see actually how these selections work, um, from the back side. So, so first, how what's the difference between tier one and two? So first of all, let's cover some colloquialisms. You're going to hear white SOF versus black SOF. Your white SOF is your tier two guys, which is your Rangers, your Special Forces, your MARSOC Raiders, your uh Marine Force Recon, and your SEALs. Quick caveat with SEALs. There's two types of SEALs, there's two levels of SEALs. You have your JV SEALs, your varsity SEALs, your white side SEALs, your black side SEALs. Most SEALs that you meet, whether it's any SEAL team other than SEAL Team Six, are your white side SEALs, your vanilla SEALs. We also commonly refer to them as the JV SEALs. Your SEAL team six is an entire another organization, about five times if not larger than any other actual SEAL team because they have three to four times as many operators and they have like five to 10 times more support staff. So, so that's the difference, all right? In your tier one units, all right? Your three main operational tier one units, which are designed after uh organizational structures designed after the British SAS. They have squadrons and they have troops. Is your Delta Force, your um, DEVGRU or SEAL Team Six, and not as well commonly known unit is known as the Intelligence Support Activity. And there are a couple adjacent units, uh like the 24th STS, which are is your Air Force Special Operations. They have your JTACs, they have your TAC Ps, your forward air controls, your pararescue. So these guys are they support not only tier two but also tier one elements. I've been served along JTACs in both tier two and tier one. And I actually, I love the AFSOC guys. They're amazing. But I'm not quite completely sure of how they how their selection process works and who they determine who gets to go to support tier two elements versus tier one elements. So the biggest difference between tier two and tier one selections is you're all your white SOF, your tier two. They're selections are going to be where they're yelling at you, they're screaming at you, they're getting in your face. They are trying to break you mentally and they have a lot more team oriented events. Tier one, they actually don't yell at you. They don't give you any negative reinforcement, but they don't give you any positive reinforcement. And I'll talk more later at the tier one selection video of why that is. And then also almost all their events are completely individual. You have very few to no team events in the tier one selections. And also another colloquialism that we're going to commonly hear is about assaulters or operators. So when you go to one of these units, especially the tier one units, you can either go to selection as a support personnel or as an operator, which also commonly known is, especially in SEAL Team Six or Delta, are also known as assaulters. So these are your operators, these are the guys who are on the ground, who are doing the, you know, the main stuff. And then everybody else is essentially a support personnel. And then these three operational tier one units, we also another colloquialism is used is we use the task force colors which we were using in the early 2000s, probably into the mid 2000s, occasionally still use them when we're trying to determine who is who because a lot of times we'll go into meetings with other tier one elements and we're not in uniform. So as we're trying to figure out who is who because these units commonly change their operational names, we'll be kind of figure out who is who and then we'll be like, are you this color? Are you that color? So the three main colors for the three tier one units, uh Delta Force is green, SEAL Team six is blue, and the activity is orange. Or commonly known as TFO. So, I hope this was educational. Tomorrow I will put out part two of how tier two selections are generally run and what you need to know and what to do in order to help you pass a tier two selection. And then the part three will be about tier one and the differences, how they do their selections and how they um the best ways and advice that I have to pass them as well. So, hope this was informative. If you guys have any comments, complaints, questions, uh just leave a comment. And just remember, at the end of the day, this is my opinion, nothing more than that. So if you disagree with my opinion, I got nothing for you. All right, I appreciate you guys.