Welcome back to Squawk Box, five things to know ahead of today's opening bell. A source telling CNBC two federal investigations into online prediction betting site Polymarket have been closed with no charges filed against the company. The Justice Department and CFTC had been investigating whether Polymarket was accepting bets from people in the United States. Meanwhile, Republicans narrowly voting to advance a package of spending cuts proposed by President Trump. The procedural vote on that roughly $9 billion dollar package passed the Senate 51 to 50 with Vice President J.D. Vance breaking that tie. The measure seeks to claw back previously approved funding for foreign aid and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting with which funds PBS and NPR. And Elon Musk's company SpaceX planning an insider share sale that would value the company at roughly $400 billion. That's according to a Bloomberg report. And Tesla's top sales executive in North America has left the company. The Wall Street Journal reporting that Troy Jones, the company's vice president of sales, services delivery in the region, departing the company this after 15 years. He's the latest in a string of top executives to leave the company since April. And finally, a robot taking center stage in last night's Major League Baseball All-Star game, the ABS automated ball strike system coming into play in the first inning when catcher Cal Raleigh used it to challenge a call. He was right and it led to a strikeout. As CNBC's Alex Sherman reported yesterday, MLB Commissioner Rob uh Manfred supporting that new technology and it may be ready for every game next year. I'm all in favor of it. Instant replay, right? Instant replay. But then what was the thing that happened at Wimbledon this year where this AI system totally missed the call and then they didn't have a replay and who was it who lost the point and it like lost the whole match because of it. It was crazy. Oh. Umpires are I mean, tough job. Tough job. But I I've had, you know, now that I have sometimes I have some thing, you know, $5 or $10 on the line. There are times in an inning where one call if it's just egregious and totally obvious that it was bad. It's like that totally changed. It it hurts a rally or or it stops, you know, it can make a a difference. But then there's times when you need the the umpire instead of a machine. I I why? Why do you need the umpire? I'm trying to figure that out. Exactly because if the machine absolutely no, that's wrong. Like. Oh, the machine's wrong. That's bad. Obviously. I don't I don't know how I feel about that. Uh,