So this is my three-part series on how to pass Tier One and Tier Two selections. Part three will cover Tier One selections. So quick recap of my background. I'm a former special forces and a Tier One operator and I was able to be a cadre for a Tier One selection later on in my Tier One career.

So Tier One units, we're basically going to cover the main three operational Tier One units, which is Seal Team 6, Delta Force, and the Intelligence Support Activity. Also blue, green, or orange, you know, based on the task force colors I've talked about in the different the other different videos. So what separates these three different units is one is they're all three of them are modeled after the British SAS. And then when they were created, they decided to go with a different psychology and the different way about how they do selections. So quick caveat, of the three Tier One units, I'm intimately familiar with both Delta Force and Intelligence Support Activity. They actually both of them are the Intelligence Support Activity, which was created later, directly modeled theirs off of Delta selection. Seal Team 6 has a lot of similarities, but they have a few differences of the three, and I reached out to a couple Seal Team 6 buddies who I've served with and asked them for a couple clarifications about some of the stuff that I would be talking about in this video, just to make sure that it is correct and accurate. So the biggest difference between Tier Two and Tier One selections is first, Tier One selections, almost all the events are individual events. There's very little to no team events. The second part is there's no negative or positive reinforcements. They're not yelling at you, they're not screaming at you, they're not telling you to quit. They don't tell you anything other than instructions that are extremely stoic. And you don't know the evaluation criteria. You are basically given instructions once, maybe twice depending on the situation, and that's it. And then you're expected to complete those tasks without any little to no knowledge about the evaluation criteria. For example, if you go on a ruck, you don't know what your time needs to be. The only way that you know that you didn't meet the evaluation criteria is you'll randomly be whisked away on a truck and you'll be told that you're out and you won't see anybody you ever saw in selection ever again.

There's a couple reasons why they have a different psychology compared to the Tier Two selections. Most people who are in Tier One selections are coming from Tier Two units. Well, especially Seal Team 6, you have to be a SEAL, you know, even to go to Seal Team 6. So they know that you've been through the suck. They know that you know how to go through hard shit, and they don't need to test that. That's not what they're looking for. They're looking to see how much skill and ability that you have, and also what is your mental capacity to deal with problems on your own with little to no instruction. And they even put you through no-win scenarios just to see how you deal with them. Because one of the advantages when you're going to that Tier Two selection and you're getting yelled at and you're being told to quit and you've got your other fellow candidates next to you, you can actually bond and you can actually find strength from each other. You can't do that. because almost all the events are individual. You have to rely completely on yourself. And because you don't know the evaluation criteria, you just have to do the best that you can as fast as you can. Because 90% of the events are going to be individual. You're by yourself and you can only rely on yourself. You're not just being evaluated on your physical and tactical abilities. You are being studied psychologically, through your mental toughness and your mental agility. They want thinkers and problem solvers, operators who can adapt and lead and perform in any environment without guidance. The Tier Two tests if you can survive. Tier One tests you if you can either lead a mission or run one solo in either a foreign country or a foreign territory with no backup, no oversight, and no margin for error. And at face value, a lot of people will think that like, oh, you know, I'm not getting yelled at, it's not as bad. Actually, it screws with people a lot more. Because people feed off that yelling when people are telling you to quit, you know, you're like, you know what, I'm just going to do it just to say fuck you. But when you have nobody telling you that you're not doing it right or you're not doing it wrong, and also, you don't know what time you have to beat, that screws with people. And I've seen some pretty successful Tier Two operators falter to this. And it really weeds out the operators who are not mentally independently tough.

So I'm going to give you three tips on how to pass Tier One selections. The first is rucking. And while I did cover rucking in Tier Two, I'm telling you, it is so important that you have to be able to ruck run no matter what you're doing. You have to be able to move fast because the time evaluation for any ruck movement in the Tier One selections is extremely high. You have to go fast. If you cannot ruck run, you cannot pass these selections. And if you're currently training for this, learning how to ruck run and how to train up to this is can be very problematic if you try to do it too quickly. I would recommend at least a six to nine month to a year long pre-train up for a Tier One selection just because of how stressful it can be on your body. If you try to train up too quickly, you will hurt yourself. So the second part is you actually need to be good at land nav. You cannot dead reckon on these Tier One courses, especially Delta's. Delta Force's selection is in probably the worst terrain I've ever seen in my life. You cannot dead reckon to anything. You have to be able to terrain associate and you have to be able to move fast while doing it. Quick recommendation for anybody, if you're planning to go to Delta Force selection, I would go find a civilian tracker in the somewhere in the areas of West Virginia and do a one week land nav course. Trust me, it will help you. Not only is it the worst terrain I've ever seen and the hardest land nav, you're going to be moving like 20 miles a day, if not more. And that's all with a ruck on. And there's a fast-ass time standard. And the third part is mentally prepare yourself. And while the first two parts really kind of cover physical preparation, because if you don't properly prepare yourself, I'm telling you, just having heart will not get you through a Tier One selection. You have to physically prepare yourself. Almost everybody who drops out of a Tier One selection, all of them passed Tier Two. They have heart, but their bodies broke down because the physical stress that you will go through in a tier selection is beyond anything you've ever seen. And if anybody knows, there's a reason why they Delta Force is called The Long Walk. The third part is mental preparedness and I cannot stress this part enough. You have to develop a level of mental independence and resilience and your attention to detail needs to be completely spot on. Anytime that they give you instructions, you have to pay attention, you have to memorize it. You're going to be given situations, you have to think in the situation, you have to make a decision, and then you have to go with it. They're going to study you on how you perform in these situations. They are going to create scenarios where you're put in a lot of stress and you're going to be given really hard decisions, you just have to make a decision and go with it. And this especially comes down to during selection, you will be presented with some no-win situations, all right? The worst thing that you can do is be indecisive. Make a decision and then follow it through no matter what. Trust me. So if you show up to a Tier One selection, physically prepared, you can ruck run for days, you know how to land nav, no matter where it is, and you are mentally prepared to tackle any situation that anybody sends at you, even if it's a no-win situation, you will be able to pass. You will be able to make it. And trust me when I tell you this, it'll be one of the hardest but probably the greatest experiences of your life. There's a reason why Tier One operators are even looked at in the civilian world as the equivalent to professional and Olympic athletes because of what they've had to accomplish to get to that level. And me going to selection is still to this day one of the greatest experiences of my life. I hope this was helpful. This concludes my three-part series of how to pass Tier One and Tier Two selections. If you have any questions or comments, feel free to comment on the video or send me a DM. Once again, I appreciate you guys and sorry it took so long for me to do part three.