Five things to know ahead of the opening bell today. It's jobs Friday. Number one, polled forecasters expect an increase of 125,000 non-farm payrolls in May. The unemployment rate is expected to hold steady. Remember ADP on Friday, it's not the same thing, not necessarily indicative, maybe even jobs claim jobless claims might be more or jolts or something, but that was a little bit weak. This was unbelievable yesterday. I wondered, didn't you about Circle shares of stable coin company Circle sharply higher in pre-market trading after a big move yesterday. I think it was priced at like 31, stock opened at 69. Uh, and today it's all the way up to 94. Uh, up another, uh, 13% and the shares of Lululemon. I wanted, uh, to lead with that this morning. I, I suggested that this. I I I did a double take when I saw this. No, I mean, the top of the show. Oh, Lululemon. Yeah, Kitty, there's some other stuff, right? A couple of other things. Yeah, interceded. President Xi didn't even get top billing. Yeah, President Xi didn't even get, uh, uh, what she said, uh, didn't even get. Uh, Plug earnings and revenue, uh, and the other guys he. He and she, right? And she. He, yeah. Revenue beat estimates but comps, uh, sales growth of 1% missed estimates of 3%. The company cut its full year, uh, guidance citing a dynamic macro environment. The CFO said they're planning strategic price increases to mitigate, uh, the effects of tariffs. And then you got the shares of Docusign sharply lower. Earnings and revenue beat estimates, but billings in the first quarter came in weaker than expected. Um, the guidance That's a big move too. Yeah, the company's guidance for billing in the current quarter also came in below estimates. Broadcom earnings and revenue came in slightly higher than analysts expected and current quarter guidance also beat estimates on strong AI revenue growth, but the stock's pulling back a bit after a strong run up since the recent, uh, low hit in early April, just after President Trump announced the sweeping tariff plans. Stocks up about 70% from the April. There were some concerns from the Broadcom call yesterday that maybe all of this AI growth is not going to be quite as strong as had been hoped for, had been anticipated. That's what they said.