Right, five things to know ahead of today's opening bell. Israel and Iran trading air strikes for the sixth straight day. Current and former Trump administration officials tell NBC News that the president is considering a range of options including a possible US strike on Iran. Amazon's chief executive Andy Jassy says that the company's corporate workforce will shrink in the coming years as Amazon adapts adopts more generative AI tools and agents. In a memo to employees, Jassy said we will need fewer people doing some of the jobs that are being done today and more people doing other types of jobs. New York City Democratic Mayoral candidate Brad Lander has been released from custody after he was arrested by federal agents at an immigration court in Manhattan. Lander had linked arms with the person that authorities were trying to detain. Lander's wife posted on X that the New York City controller had been escorting a defendant out of court. He needed a boost. I mean it his campaign needed a boost. That other guy's coming on strong. Cuomo is like they're buying ads about that that young guy that they're calling radical. No, the guy who's who's like a communist? Yeah, who wants to defund the police. AOC, uh endorsed him, some other guy endorsed him. But Brad, you know, work, he was on CNN last night. CNN last night, got the call immediately from the Booker. Yeah, that was a pretty good video for him. How many more? How many more times is this going to happen? It's it's like a it's it's a thing. It's a trend. It's going to keep happening. You you are guaranteed to be on CNN. He was apparently right next to Governor Kathy Hochul from New York too. They whatever. All right, the Senate passing a bill to regulate US dollar-pegged stable coins. It's known as the Genius Act. Attention now turns to the House which is working on getting its own stable coin bill. And the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office says that President Trump's package of tax cuts would increase deficits by $2.8 trillion over the next decade after including other economic effects. Congressional Republicans argue that tax cuts would spur economic growth and overcome any revenue that the government stands to lose. like 68 votes for the stable coin. Oh, right. 68 to 30, I think, was the the vote in the Oh my god. Just to say that shocking, isn't it? stable coin that is backed by It's it's bipartisan. Yeah, and that you can actually go ahead and back it up and audit these things. Um It's a good idea. It's it's going to work. Right. And there's some people who think this stable coin actually boosts the boosts the US dollar because you need these liquid assets to this is what you really are you know, hopefully it's not like this. Well, they they can audit it. How do these two? There'd be a a way to make sure you can go through and audit what they actually have.