Five things to know ahead of today's opening bell. The full extent of damage to Iran's nuclear program unclear after US strikes on the country over the weekend, but in a post on Truth Social last night, President Trump saying, quote, "monumental damage had been done." Now, oil prices spiked when they opened for trading last night. Stock futures fell, but both of those moves have now reversed. Brent and WTI aren't moving much and stock futures are higher. Meantime, Tesla beginning its Robo taxi service in Austin, Texas, carrying paying customers in cars without human drivers. The company did have human safety monitors inside the cars.

And Apple reportedly considering beefing up its AI technology with a big acquisition. Bloomberg says the company's executives have talked internally about bidding for perplexity AI. Though they haven't contacted perplexity management. And the Oklahoma City Thunder beating the Indiana Pacers last night to win the 2025 NBA championship. The Thunder tied the 1996-97 Chicago Bulls for the third most wins in any season. Surprised you were a Pacer fan. You can go Indiana. Oklahoma. I lived in both those places. We can have that discussion, but I I was so impressed by what the Pacers did. They were the underdogs. OKC was phenomenal. I I respect everything they did, but I it was also awful to see the Colts and you know, I mean Oklahoma all they really had were the Sooners before that, right? But it's nice to get a professional Yeah, it it's I'm thrilled for them. They were into it. I loved them when Kevin Durant was there. Those people were into it. They they were. I'm happy for them, but it would have been nice if Haliburton hadn't gone out seven minutes in. Right. To to see what really would have happened, right? To see these two great teams. I I saw I saw all three I saw all three quarters and then it went to bed. Incredible. What do you make of what I you the business problem the NBA is now facing? In terms of the ratings? The ratings. So the ratings for these finals have been an abomination. And and there's an argument to be made, there was an interesting piece, but there was an interesting piece in the New York Post that said this go the headline literally was, this goes beyond small market problems, which is to say whether the interest in either the NBA and or every kid with their phone watching just the clips aren't engaging in a live way. I might be, but this just time but the demise of the NBA has been greatly exaggerated by ten times. I think so too. Yeah. I part of it, look, I I I think they should call more fouls in the playoffs to see some big players go down like they did. Um and get these really terrible injuries that are probably gonna keep them out for the next season. This was an Achilles thing that Haliburton went down with too. Second time that's happened in the playoff where you have one of your star players go down like that. Um I'd love to see them call call more fouls in and and in the playoffs they don't call as many fouls, right? Almost like football. And that's terrible to see some of your key down. It used to be the quarterbacks you had to protect. I I think in some cases you got to protect these. It's a non-contact. You gotta figure out a way to make the ratings work because the truth is, for example, by the way, our parent company just spent a fortune on NBA rights. The Knicks went so far. And you can't make the math work if you don't have enough people watching. It's a amazing watch. But I I think it is a small market problem to some extent. I I That's what it was. This time. I Definitely. Like what remember what was happening with the Knicks were in it for so long. Yeah. With Xiaomi and you know, Ben Stiller. But even but even then the ratings were not. If you go back and look, the ratings were not off the charts. It just didn't I I don't know what's going on. I'm not sure what's happening, but something is happening. Yeah. Interesting proposition. Good to play some defense in regular during the regular season. Help. I just want them to play defense during the All-Star game. I was gonna say the running and gunning. they gotta fix. Running and gunning. Yeah.